Major menu tab headings on each new page: 
22 pt font size in black instead of smaller and in green. (These are the same as the menu tab headings on the home page) When on these pages, can these headings be shifted up so that they are able to be seen on laptops without scrolling down past the image on each page?
About us
Professional development 
Accredited training
Resources
Contact us, we’re here to help

Our Company 

Home page door
Specialists in Early Childhood training and development
First Door specialises in delivering meaningful training within the Early Childhood and Outside School Hours Care sector. We promote the need to create learning organisations where each centre or service operates with skilled mentors and an effective educational leader.

Professional development workshops (link to PD page)
We deliver interactive professional development that encompasses the National Quality Framework combining relevant theory with practical work related experiences. 

Accredited training (link to accredited training page)
Our application to the Australian Skills Quality Authority has been submitted to become a Registered Training Organisation (RTO).  Accredited training is subject to registration and will only proceed once First Door is registered as a RTO.

Engaging resources and environments
Engaging resources
We are committed to ensuring our resources are relevant and meaningful combining learning with real work experiences. First Door prepares the student workbook for each unit to ensure practical work-based activities and assessment tasks that allow students to practice and understand theory.

Engaging learning environments 
First Door creates learning environments that connect learning and people through:
face to face workshops
First Door social media communities
workplace mentoring


Your personal mentor
First Door undertakes to provide an arranged monthly workplace mentoring meeting for each student. Where this is not possible, due to the location of the centre, then a monthly skype or facetime meeting is arranged between student and mentor. This meeting allows for:
review of the student’s previous assessment and feedback
thirty minutes workplace observation and assessment
fifteen minutes to provide constructive feedback
assistance with understanding of the current workbook and assessment activities
guidance, inspiration and support for each student

Constructive and timely assessment
Assessment is the process of gathering evidence to determine the competency of each student based on the National accredited training requirements. First Door undertakes to return student workbooks and assessment to the student within fourteen days of receipt. Assessment feedback is provided to guide a student on their progress and address any areas of difficulty. 

First Door assessment comprises of:
A paper workbook records:
evidence through the student’s handwritten account of workplace experiences that demonstrates the student’s required knowledge and ability to use the theory of the unit.
a workplace supervisor and First Door mentor’s assessment of student competency in workplace practice.
evidence of a student’s practical skills through documentation of workplace activities and in their reflective writing.
The workbook is submitted to First Door using the provided postage paid envelope.
Assessment tasks 
Wherever possible, assessment tasks are completed by students as computer documents and submitted to First Door by email. First Door attempts to make assessment questions/activities relevant to the student’s workplace experiences to provide the student with authentic learning and meaningful assessment.


Latest resource update (links to the latest uploaded resource).













Accredited Training
Accredited training is subject to registration and will only proceed once First Door is registered as a Registered Training Organisation.

During the enrolment process each student will commence either a Structured or Flexi learning plan to best support their success.

Diploma of Children’s Services
(details to come)

Creating a learning organisation 
A certificate of attainment will be awarded following the successful completion of each accredited unit. These units are available to be studied individually or as a series to gain knowledge and skills in creating a learning organisation. Each individual unit contributes towards completion of a Diploma of Management or Certificate IV in Training and Assessment. 

Certificate lV in Training and Assessment
(details to come)

Diploma of Management
(details to come)

Accredited training fees (link to pdf file in dropbox)

Structured training plan and workshops
Diploma of Children’s Services (link to pdf document in dropbox)
Creating a learning organisation (link to pdf document in dropbox)

Professional Development    














Fees (new page)
Professional Development workshop fees 
The workshop fees cover the cost of:
An assessment of the group’s general prior knowledge and working skills prior to the workshop. This assessment relies on the centre Director completing the relevant workshop needs assessment form and submitting the form to First Door at least one week prior to the workshop date.
An interactive two hour presentation of the workshop at your centre using our data projector, screen and relevant resources
Supplied resources to each attending person
Certificate of participation to each attending person
Follow on templates to allow for continued practice
Access to First Door social networking and communication tools
Evaluation of the effectiveness of the workshop in improving your team’s knowledge, skills and capability 


Group size
First Door presents interactive professional development workshops and therefore prefers to have no more than twenty people in attendance. If your group size is larger than twenty please discuss this with us so that we can best accommodate your group.

Professional development workshop fee payment
Fee payments for professional development workshops are made in advance to First Door Training and Development Pty. Ltd. These are paid in two ways:

1. Payment of $400 prior to each single professional development workshop

2. Payment of $2,800 for the series of eight booked workshops. When the workshop series is booked and paid, the Centre will receive the customised professional development workshop, tailored to your centre’s needs, at NO CHARGE.
	
Advance fee payment protection 
All fees paid in advance are protected.  We guarantee the company’s sound financial position and safeguard all payments made in advance until the conclusion of the professional development workshops to the value of the advanced payment.

Cancellation refunds 
If First Door has to cancel the workshop an alternative suitable date will be arranged, or a full refund will be given.
 
If a Centre provides at least two weeks’ notice prior to the workshop to cancel and a suitable new booking date for the workshop is not achieved they will receive a full refund.  
A cancellation made by the Centre during the fortnight before the workshop is subject to a cancellation fee of $100.

Satisfaction guarantee
Your feedback on our service is important to us as we strive to continually improve our resources approach and presentation to best meet our client’s needs. We guarantee your satisfaction with the delivery of our professional development workshops and offer a money back guarantee to assure you of our integrity to provide worthwhile and meaningful professional development to your team.

PD needs analysis forms
(to come)

PD workshop evaluation 
(to come)


