Hi Andrea and Cindy,

The issue here is choice of technology used for the website. 

At our first meeting your requirements for the site were a certain design. I offered to add eventually editing capabilities to the site and things like live chat and maybe even things like a blog or forum. I said for me to build this website with these capabilities I was going to use nodejs (one of you I saw writing that down) and I would need access to a linux box to serve the site. There was talk of Ian possibly being able to supply the server even. The idea was to make you self sufficient and independent regarding editing and updating the site, since I didn't want you to have to rely on me to do that.

Since I only met with you both and you did not state any requirement on technologies used, I picked the best one for the job. 

I could have used a traditional LAMP stack or even a full blown CMS like Drupal, Joomla or Wordpress, but I didn't for technological reasons, since I wanted to fulfil your requirements as quickly and flexible and future proof as possible. 

This also implies that you put your trust in me regarding choice of technology used. 

Now it seems from reading your recent emails that you have lost that trust and are now taking advice on technology matters from a third party. That's all fine however this person (Ian) should have been involved from the beginning so that I could have tailored anything I made to his (technological) requirements and skills. 

I can obviously discuss with you design and functional requirements regarding the site, and we have been doing that productively and effectively so far. 

Your email quoted below however is so full of confusion regarding the technological requirements I don't know where to begin to address it.  I can only conclude that either you only half understand what Ian advises you, or Ian himself doesn't understand how things work. 

I am not claiming territory here, and I am very happy to work with anybody you want to bring in to help with making this website a technological reality. However since I didn't know that you were relying on an third party until this week it is a bit too late now to tell me how I am supposed to fulfil what you asked me to do, and I am frankly quite puzzled how all this happened all of a sudden. 

I am not being difficult here, I only believe I really do know what I am talking about and your latest emails really don't make much sense from a technological standpoint. You have to trust me to the job the best way I know how. 

It's like ordering a meal from a chef and when he is almost done requiring he deep fries it instead of bake it, and use this ingredient instead of that one, while all that really should matter to you is that it is tasty and done in time. If you think about it, it is actually quite offensive especially if you then proceed to claim you have your own expert chef in the wings who then to add injury to insult seems to be giving the wrong advice, which you insist the chef follows! If you are going to approach the chef half way through to talk to them about what they're doing you better show some expertise in cooking or stop wasting his time.

To be honest that is how I feel at the moment.

I can offer you:

(Which I now realise I should have put in writing at the start to avoid confusion, as you would have been able to give this information to any third party you were seeking advice on and pulled the plug before the work began):

Short term design and functionality:
A website design as discussed through emails and Skype. Basically the look it has now plus additional content you sent me added (Youtube videos, pd content) and the list of changes we talked about on Skype.
Contact us form. 

Longer term functionality:
Capability to edit and update any text on your own website, and of course through a standard editor. You can copy and paste from another editor or use the one I would put on the site. I don't write editors, it's been done.
With a bit more effort from my end you should be able to update/change slideshows, images, youtube links etc independently from me as well.
With a bit more effort again a blog can be added, till that functionality is there you can just add articles to a list, which can be grouped under a menu. 
A comment system can be added, and possibly a forum, although it is probably easier to go through a third party website for that.

Technology:
Non-proprietary open source software, adopted, modified or written by me. Not further specified because there were no specific requirements made, just requests for functionality and design.
A site comprises of a client and a server side. They interact with each other and are dependent on each other. For the developer to implement any design/layout/functionality requirements his advice regarding choice of server needs to be taken serious.

Scalability:
This an issue which will have to be addressed if and when your site starts getting a substantial amount of traffic.  But it is not an issue now, and is independent from whatever software is being used to serve the site. And there are easy on the shelf solutions to scale a site, at a cost.

And a last point I want to make in relation to all this: Once it runs, it runs.There is no maintenance necessary, that's the whole point of making you independent from me. All you have to do is pay the monthly bill for having the server hosted, and edit content as you see fit. 

Now if you want to change the design, or layout or add functionality, yes you would need somebody with expertise to do that for you, but that is the case no matter what technology is used to implement your functional requirements.

I want to do this because I can reuse whatever I make for other sites (I already am) and because I like doing it. But these last few emails from you and my needing to respond to them are wasting my time which I actually don't have in abundance at the moment. The plan was to do your site this weekend, but instead I'm writing this email and am not sure if it's worth my time to put more time in it, since it seems like your ready to pull the plug on it all, because you're getting conflicting advice which you 'completely' trust.


Regards,
Michiel
 

On Sat, Apr 20, 2013, at 07:33 AM, First Door Training and Development wrote:
Hi Michiel,

It is becoming clear that the website you are creating for us has customised software and programming which is raising some concerns, and we need to clarify these. 

Our understanding of the website brief to you, at our meeting at Southbank, was that we needed a website that we could host on a standard server, and maintain ourselves. We agreed that you would establish the start up website at a nominal reduced fee as a learning and portfolio tool, and that further developments to the design of the website once we are operating as a business would be charged to us. 

Following your email advising that the website could notbe served from a traditional Apache server without losing all the dynamic features, we need to clarify the following points with you:

·Our website needs to be hosted on a standard sever, being Crazy Domains as we do not want to manage our own server. 

·Crazy Domains have confirmed they can host NodeJS as you requested. 

·First Door is a start up business, and it is not financially viable for us to have a dependent website. There is concern that with customised programming we would be reliant on your support and would be unable to manage it on an ongoing basis.

·Our website needs to be able to function independently with Cindy and I editing it, and Ian maintaining it as necessary. 

·To be independent we would require standard website editing programs rather than your own proprietary editing software. 

We apologise if we have not made our needs clear enough to you, and trust that we can work together to achieve a website that meets your needs for a portfolio and our needs for simplicity in maintaining it. It would be good to skype or get together over the weekend to discuss this.



With thanks

Andrea and Cindy



First Door Training and Development Pty. Ltd.
m: 0437 870 932    l   p: 3491 3573   l   e: firstdoortraining@gmail.com
 
 
